LUDXX - Add proposal for currencies on payRequest (#251)
btcontract/lnurl-rfc: 21.md

The main features provided by this extension are:
- `SERVICE` **MUST** inform `WALLET` what currencies it supports
- `WALLET` **MAY** request an invoice with an amount denominated in one of the currencies
- `WALLET` **MAY** request to the payment to be converted into one of the currencies

The extension is opt-in and backward compatible. Further, a supporting `WALLET` can always tell if a `SERVICE` is also supporting beforehand so the communication is never ambiguous.

### Wallet-side first request

The first request is unchanged from the base specification.

### Service-side first response

`SERVICE` must alter its JSON response to the first request to include a `currencies` field, as follows:

```typescript
type BaseResponse = {
    tag: "payRequest",
    metadata: string,
    callback: string,
    maxSendable: number,
    minSendable: number
}

type Currency = {
  code: string, // Code of the currency, used as an ID for it. E.g.: BRL
  name: string, // Name of the currency. E.g.: Reais
  symbol: string, // Symbol of the currency. E.g.: R$

>   decimals: number, // Integer; Number of decimal places. E.g.: 2

Reviewer: nit: It might be good to include a longer description about this field. With UMA, a bunch of folks integrating have been a bit confused by the mechanics around decimals/multiplier. Might be good to lay out some examples and show why decimals is important for clarity.

Reviewer: FYI @lsunsi I added some examples and notes on small currency units in the uma spec that might be helpful here too - https://github.com/uma-universal-money-address/protocol/blob/main/umad-04-lnurlp-response.md#currency-examples

Author: This makes a lot of sense, I tried complementing the spec with this info and copied your example kind of . What do you think of (https://github.com/lnurl/luds/pull/251/commits/6a5b6e029f7716a6a6caec75b8b2521fef29d148)?

Reviewer: Cool, that captures the gist of it! I think the main difference is that UMA has an explicit max of 8 decimals, but keeping it open is fine too. LGTM

### Service-side second response

Upon receiving a currency-denominated request from `WALLET`, the `SERVICE` must return an invoice with an amount matching the converted rate for the amount in that currency. The rate used does not need to match the `multiplier` first informed.

If the `WALLET` requested an actual conversion, the `SERVICE` must provide an additional field alongside the invoice informing the guaranteed `converted` amount that will be creditted to the receiver upon payment. The `converted` amount, and therefore the conversion rate, must be guaranteed by the `SERVICE` for as long as the invoice is not expired. The `converted` amount must be denominated in the smallest unit of the currency, just like the `amount` parameter.

```typescript
type BaseResponse = {
  pr: string,
  routes: [],
}

type ExtendedResponse = BaseResponse & {
  converted?: number, // Integer; Present if and only if `convert` was received.
}
```

```diff
{
  "pr": "lnbc1230n1pjknkl...ju36m3lyytlwv42fee8gpt6vd2v",
  "routes": [],

> + "converted": 123

Reviewer: Funny enough, in UMA, I chose not to include the target amount, but did include the multiplier and some other stuff:

```typescript
"paymentInfo": {
    // The currency code of the receiving currency (eg. "USD"). This should match the requested currency in the payreq
    // request.
    "currencyCode": string,
    // Millisats per "unit" of the receiving currency (eg. 1 cent in USD). A double-precision floating point number.
    // In this context, this is just for convenience. The conversion rate is also baked into the invoice amount itself.
    // `invoice amount = amount * multiplier + exchangeFeesMillisatoshi`
    "multiplier": number,
    // Number of digits after the decimal point for the receiving currency. For example, in USD, by convention, there are
    // 2 digits for cents - $5.95. In this case, `decimals` would be 2. This should align with the currency's `decimals`
    // field in the LNURLP response. It is included here for convenience. See [UMAD-04](/uma-04-local-currency.md) for
    // details, edge cases, and examples.
    "decimals": number,
    // The fees charged (in millisats) by the receiving VASP to convert to the target currency.
    // This is separate from the multiplier rate.
    "exchangeFeesMillisatoshi": number
},
```

The fees are useful for a full visual cost breakdown on the sender side. The multiplier and decimals help infer the converted amount from the invoice amount. I do like having the wrapping struct to keep related fields grouped and allow for extension in the future without polluting the top-level structure. Just some food for thought :-). 

UMA spec link: https://github.com/uma-universal-money-address/protocol/blob/main/umad-06-payreq-response.md

Author: This is interesting. The reason I chose to keep just the int is to keep the protocol smaller.
The only property in this structure that is not already included is the fee, right?

The reason I didn't included it is that there's multiple ways of taking the fee, right? It could be billed in sats, or in currency (althought it's kind of the same). But the fee could be in the price (spread) or separate. Etc.

What do you think about these possibilities?

Reviewer: Yeah that's fair. I just delimit the fee in mSats always because my assumption is that it's based into the cost of the invoice: `invoice amount = amount * multiplier + exchangeFeesMillisatoshi`. I like having a top-level structure to wrap payment details since I could imagine more fields being added there in the future for scenarios you're describing. With the wrapper, we wouldn't need to pollute the top level more.

  }
}

type ExtendedResponse = BaseResponse & {
  currencies: Currency[]
}
```

```diff
{
  "tag": "payRequest",
  "metadata": '[["text/plain","$kenu ⚡ bipa.app"]]',
  "callback": "https://api.bipa.app/ln/request/invoice/kenu",
  "maxSendable": 1000000000,
  "minSendable": 1000,
+ "currencies": [
+   {
+     "code": "BRL",
+     "name": "Real",
+     "symbol": "R$",
+     "decimals": 2,
+     "multiplier": 5404.405,
+     "convertible": {
+       "max": 100000,
+       "min": 1000
+     }
+   }
+ ]
}
```

- The inclusion of the `currencies` field implies the support of this extension
- The inclusion of a `currency` implies it can be used for denomination of an amount
- The inclusion of a `convertible` field implies the `SERVICE` can quote and guarantee a price for a given `currency`
- The `multiplier` is not guaranteed by the `SERVICE` and is subject to change
- The `code` of a `currency` will be used as an identifier for the next request and must be unique
- The `code` must be according to [ISO-4217](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) if possible
- The order of the `currencies` may be interpreted by the `WALLET` as the receiving user preference for a currency

> - The `max` and `min` fields within `convertible` field must be respected by `WALLET` on `convertable` requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `max` and `min` fields within `convertible` field must be respected by `WALLET` on `convertible` requests
```

Author: Fixed!

The extension is opt-in and backwards compatible. Further, a supporting `WALLET` can always tell if a `SERVICE` is also supporting beforehand so the communication is never ambiguous.

### Wallet-side first request

The first request is unchanged from the base specification.

### Service-side first response

`SERVICE` must alter its JSON response to the first callback to include a `currencies` field, as follows:

```typescript
type BaseResponse = {
    tag: "payRequest",
    metadata: string,
    callback: string,
    maxSendable: number,
    minSendable: number
};

type Currency = {
  name: string, // Name of the currency. E.g.: Reais
  symbol: string, // Symbol of the currency. E.g.: R$
  decimals: number, // Number of decimal places. E.g.: 2
  price: number, // Number of currency per BTC. E.g.: 185000

>   convertable?: bool // Whether the currency can be converted into.

Reviewer: Spelling nit: 
```suggestion
  convertible?: bool // Whether the currency can be converted into.
```

Author: Thanks!

}

type ExtendedResponse = BaseResponse & {
  currencies: { [key: string]: Currency }
}
```

```diff
{
  "tag": "payRequest",
  "metadata": '[["text/plain","$kenu ⚡ bipa.app"]]',
  "callback": "https://api.bipa.app/ln/request/invoice/kenu",
  "maxSendable": 1000000000,
  "minSendable": 1000,
+ "currencies": {
+   "BRL": {
+     "name": "Real",
+     "symbol": "R$",
+     "decimals": 2,
+     "price": 185000,

> +     "convertable": true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+     "convertible": true
```

Author: Thanks!

+   }
+ }
}
```

- The inclusion of the `currencies` field implies the support of this extension
- The inclusion of a `currency` implies it can be used for denomination of an amount

> - The inclusion of a `convertable currency` implies the `SERVICE` can quote and guarantee a price for given currency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The inclusion of a `convertible currency` implies the `SERVICE` can quote and guarantee a price for given currency
```

Author: Thanks!

- The price returned on this response is not guaranteed by the `SERVICE` and is subject to change
- The `key` of a `currency` will be used as an identifier for the next request
- The `key` and other information must be according to [ISO-4217](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) for currencies that are included in it

### Wallet-side second request

Upon seeing the `currencies` field on the response from `SERVICE`, a `WALLET` may show the user it has the option of denominating the amount in different currencies or even of sending sats to be credited as the different currency for the receiver.

After gathering the input from the user, it must be encoded into the callback as query parameters as follows.

> The most general case, when the user is denominating the amount in `CURRENCY1`, but wants it to be converted to `CURRENCY2` on `SERVICE`.

Reviewer: I'm slightly confused on who's responsible for knowing the conversions here. Is it always the payee service that needs to know both CURRENCY1 and CURRENCY2 and their exchange rates to/from bitcoin?

This differs slightly from the UMA flow (which may be fine since it's a slightly different use case). With UMA , the sender's service (wallet/custodian/exchange/etc) would be responsible for converting from the sending currency to bitcoin before traveling over lightning. For that reason, its communication of its fees and conversion rate to the user are outside of the scope of UMA/LNURL and just between it and its user. It's really just always bitcoin being sent to the receiver and the payee service doesn't need to care what currency it was before it was bitcoin.

Author: You understood it correctly, but let me try to clarify. If I ask for a lightning invoice of 1BRL, the payee service will have know the conversion rate and return me with an invoice of about 538 sats. Then if I ask the payment to covnerted into BRL, then the payee service (again) will be responsible for performing the exchange and crediting the payee with BRL.

So the payer never has to know any exchange information, it's all on the payee side. It might want to check exchange rate or something, but it's optional and out of scope of the proposal.

About your second point, I'm actually really glad you mentioned it, because what I call colloquially "source exchange data" was part of the [first draft](https://github.com/bipa-app/lnurl-rfc/pull/1) I thought about this subject. In order to really "simulate" a remittance, we need the payee service to be able to tell which currency the BTC came from and at what cost.

I decided not to add this part to this spec because I think it can be thought of a separate complementary LUD, which as soon as this one is done I'll work on immediately. So at this point, the 'source exchange data' is outside the scope of this proposal and LNURL, like you said, and bitcoin is the only thing being sent and the payee service doesn't know anything about the payer sourcing of bitcoin.

Does that clear things out? I'm happy to keep discussing if things are not clear

Reviewer: Nice, I'm glad to hear you've already thought a bit about the source exchange data! Having it as separate to this proposal sounds fine to me as long as it's extensible enough to add that ability in the future.

> In order to really "simulate" a remittance, we need the payee service to be able to tell which currency the BTC came from and at what cost.

Do you mind explaining why the payee service needs to know this? I don't have a ton of knowledge about traditional remittences, but I'd love to learn :-).

Author: It's actually so the user can have a nice experience typing (meaning, I can preview how much will it receive or spend while the typing is happening) without actually using the callback (which can be expensive in some implementations). :D

If the `WALLET` requested an actual conversion, the `SERVICE` must provide an additional field alongside the invoice informing the guaranteed `converted` amount that will be credit to the receiver upon payment. The `converted` amount, and therefore the conversion rate, must be guaranteed by the `SERVICE` for as long as the lightning invoice is not expired.

```typescript
type BaseResponse = {
  pr: string,
  routes: [],
}

type ExtendedResponse = BaseResponse & {
  converted?: number, // Present if and only if `convert` was requested.
}
```

```diff
{
  "pr": "lnbc1230n1pjknkl...ju36m3lyytlwv42fee8gpt6vd2v",
  "routes": [],
+ "converted": 123
}
```

### Examples
These examples show all the possible uses of this extension by a supporting `WALLET` and `SERVICE`.

#### Payer queries the payee service

```json
// GET bipa.app/.well-known/lnurlp/lsunsi

{
  "tag": "payRequest",
  "callback": "bipa.app/callback",
  "metadata": "...",
  "minSendable": 1000,
  "maxSendable": 1000000,
  "currencies": {
    "BRL": {
      "name": "Reais",
      "symbol": "R$",
      "decimals": 2,
      "price": 185000,

>       "convertable": true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "convertible": true
```

Author: Thanks!

The extension is opt-in and backwards compatible. Further, a supporting `WALLET` can always tell if a `SERVICE` is also supporting beforehand so the communication is never ambiguous.

### Wallet-side first request

The first request is unchanged from the base specification.

### Service-side first response

`SERVICE` must alter its JSON response to the first callback to include a `currencies` field, as follows:

```typescript
type BaseResponse = {
    tag: "payRequest",
    metadata: string,
    callback: string,
    maxSendable: number,
    minSendable: number
};

type Currency = {
  code: string, // Code of the currency, used as an ID for it. E.g.: BRL
  name: string, // Name of the currency. E.g.: Reais
  symbol: string, // Symbol of the currency. E.g.: R$
  decimals: number, // Number of decimal places. E.g.: 2

>   multiplier: number, // Number of millisatoshis per smallets unit of currency. E.g.: 5405.405

Reviewer 2: When converting the base currency to milisats or sats, should it be rounded away from zero, rounded towards zero or something else?

Author: Great question. I think the conversion at this point can be anything (away, towards or anything) because the multiplier works as a volatile hint of the actual conversion rate. The actual guaranteed (for limited time) conversion rate is given by the callback call only. Does that make sense to you?

Reviewer 2: @lsunsi yup, makes lots of sense. thanks for clarifying

- The order of the `currencies` must be interpreted by the `WALLET` as the receiving user preference for a currency

### Wallet-side second request

Upon seeing the `currencies` field on the response from `SERVICE`, a `WALLET` may show the user it has the option of denominating the amount in different currencies or even of sending sats to be credited as the different currency for the receiver.

After gathering the input from the user, it must be encoded into the callback as query parameters as follows.

The most general case, when the user is denominating the amount in `CURRENCY1`, but wants it to be converted to `CURRENCY2` on `SERVICE`.
`CURRENCY1` and `CURRENCY2` can be the same, which would the common use case for remittances.
```diff
- <callback><?|&>amount=<milliSatoshi>
+ <callback><?|&>amount=<AMOUNT><CURRENCY1>&convert=<CURRENCY2>

In a more particular case, when user is denominating the amount in `CURRENCY`, but does not want to convert it or the service does not support conversion.
```diff
- <callback><?|&>amount=<milliSatoshi>

> + <callback><?|&>amount=<AMOUNT><CURRENCY>

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should add a separator between `<AMOUNT><CURRENCY>`? This is an example of parsing implemented in Rust using the current spec:

```rust
fn parse_amount_and_maybe_currency(input: &str) -> anyhow::Result<(u64, Option<&str>)> {
    let index = input.find(char::is_alphabetic);

    Ok(if let Some(index) = index {
        let amount = input[..index].parse::<u64>()?;
        let currency = &input[index..];

        (amount, Some(currency))
    } else {
        let amount = input.parse::<u64>()?;

        (amount, None)
    })
}
```

Using a separator would make parsing a lot easier

Reviewer 2: @lorenzolfm agreed. I would suggest to  pick one of `-._~`, since they are not encoded in query strings.

See also [RFC3986](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986) and [RFC7230](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7230#section-2.7.1)

Author: I agree as well, definitely way better. Here's the change in the proposal: https://github.com/lnurl/luds/pull/251/commits/7bf8f3afadc4b6b4e2ddd0f6b0acb2a4871b7e49

@joelklabo I almost naively picked `:`. Thanks for the suggestion! Dot looks good

Reviewer: I would note that using a dot could lead to some weird bugs in practice if someone leaves decimals in the amount in a language like JS that doesn't distinguish between floats and ints. If we use something other than a period, it's a bit more explicit in the handling of bad values.

One more unfortunate JS thing here...

```
parseInt("100.BRL") == 100
parseInt("BRL.100") == NaN
```

I'm a bit worried that if we put the unit after the amount, nodejs lnurl servers will still parse it as a valid sats amount.

```

In another particular case, when the user is denominating the amount in millisatoshi, but wants it to be converted to `CURRENCY` on `SERVICE`.
```diff
- <callback><?|&>amount=<millisatoshi>
+ <callback><?|&>amount=<millisatoshi>&convert=<CURRENCY>
```

> Note that the amount provided in all requests is always an integer number denominated in the smallets possible unit of the selected currency. The smallest unit need to be in sync with the `decimals` parameter, so the `WALLET` has all the needed information to receive input and show output properly.

Reviewer 2: I just want to say that It's really confusing to request 100USDT, intuitively expecting to be `$ 100.00` not `$ 1.00`.
I have no other suggestions in fixing this for now, just my 002 cents

Author: Yeah, I agree this is a weak point of the proposal, but I also didn't come with anything better. Things I thought of were: (1) having the currency before the value like USDT100 but it amounts to the same problem; (2) having the currency on another field like amount=100&currency=USDT but again, it doesn't help much and makes the request ambiguous for non-implementers of the LUD.

Just throwing ideas. I'd love to have a less confusing/ambiguous way of expressing the same idea.

> just my 002 cents

haha got me there

Author: If having unambiguous interface isn't a priority, this could be converted to something like `amount={A}&currency={C1}&convert={C2}` or even `amount={A}&input={C1}&convert={C2}`. I gave preference for having the error on non-supporting wallets if you pass the wrong parameters, but it could also be interpreted as client error so we don't need to mix stuff on the amount field.

We discussed this privately too, so feel free to give your 002 cents if you want @jklein24

### Service-side second response

Upon receiving a currency denominated request from `WALLET`, the `SERVICE` must return a lightning invoice with an amount matching the converted rate from currency. The rate does not need to be the same as provided on the first response.

If the `WALLET` requested an actual conversion, the `SERVICE` must provide an additional field alongside the invoice informing the guaranteed `converted` amount that will be credit to the receiver upon payment. The `converted` amount, and therefore the conversion rate, must be guaranteed by the `SERVICE` for as long as the lightning invoice is not expired. The `converted` amount must be denominated in the smallest unit of the currency, just like the `amount` parameter.

```typescript
type BaseResponse = {
  pr: string,
  routes: [],

> }

Reviewer 2: What if I request a non-supported currency? let's say `?amount=100NotSupported`

It should not be the following IMO

```json
{
	"reason": "expired",
	"status": "ERROR"
}
```

Author: It absolutely should not, it should probably be a more descriptive error of this format, but it can be `SERVICE` dependent, as calling the callback with unsupported currency would be a `WALLET` mistake. Does that make sense? I'll probably change my implementation to return something like ` { "status": "ERROR", "reason": "Currency not supported" }` or something.

Author: @jaonoctus Now I'm getting `{"reason":"unsuported currency","status":"ERROR"}` on my implementation if the currency is not supported. It's an improvement

LUD-21: Currencies in `payRequest`.
=================================

`author: lsunsi`
`author: luizParreira`
`author: lorenzolfm`

---

## Support for LNURL-pay currencies

This document describes an extension to the [payRequest](https://github.com/lnurl/luds/blob/luds/06.md) base specification that allows the `WALLET` to send money to a `SERVICE` denominating the amount in a different currency. The features proposed enable many use cases ranging from denominating an invoice in a foreign currency to a remittance-like experience.

The main features provided by this extension are:
- `SERVICE` **MUST** inform `WALLET` what currencies it supports

> - `WALLET` **MAY** request an invoice with amount denominated in one of the currencies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `WALLET` **MAY** request an invoice with an amount denominated in one of the currencies
```

> - `WALLET` **MAY** request to the payment to be converted into one of the currencies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `WALLET` **MAY** request the payment to be converted into one of the currencies
```

> - `WALLET` **MAY** inform the `SERVICE` the amount and currency used the buy the amount being paid

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `WALLET` **MAY** inform the `SERVICE` of the amount and currency used to buy the amount being paid
```

> The extension is opt-in and backwards compatible. Further, a supporting `WALLET` can always tell if a `SERVICE` is also supporting beforehand so the communication is never ambiguous.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The extension is opt-in and backward-compatible. Further, a supporting `WALLET` can always tell if a `SERVICE` is also supporting beforehand so the communication is never ambiguous.
```

### Wallet-side first request

The first request is unchanged from the base specification.

### Service-side first response

> `SERVICE` must alter its JSON response to the first callback to include a `currencies` field, as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`SERVICE` must include a `currencies` field in the response, as follows:
```

```typescript
type BaseResponse = {
    tag: "payRequest",
    metadata: string,
    callback: string,
    maxSendable: number,
    minSendable: number
}

type Currency = {
  code: string, // Code of the currency, used as an ID for it. E.g.: BRL
  name: string, // Name of the currency. E.g.: Reais
  symbol: string, // Symbol of the currency. E.g.: R$
  decimals: number, // Integer; Number of decimal places. E.g.: 2

>   multiplier: number, // Double; Number of millisatoshis per smallets unit of currency. E.g.: 5405.405

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  multiplier: number, // Double; Number of millisatoshis per smallest unit of currency. E.g.: 5405.405
```

>   convertible?: bool // Whether the currency can be converted into.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  convertible?: bool // Whether SERVICE can convert the payment into the currency.
```

}

type ExtendedResponse = BaseResponse & {
  currencies: Currency[]
}
```

```diff
{
  "tag": "payRequest",
  "metadata": '[["text/plain","$kenu ⚡ bipa.app"]]',
  "callback": "https://api.bipa.app/ln/request/invoice/kenu",
  "maxSendable": 1000000000,
  "minSendable": 1000,
+ "currencies": [
+   {
+     "code": "BRL",
+     "name": "Real",
+     "symbol": "R$",
+     "decimals": 2,
+     "multiplier": 5404.405,
+     "convertible": true
+   }
+ ]
}
```

- The inclusion of the `currencies` field implies the support of this extension
- The inclusion of a `currency` implies it can be used for denomination of an amount

> - The inclusion of a `convertible currency` implies the `SERVICE` can quote and guarantee a price for given currency

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `convertible: true` implies the `SERVICE` can guarantee a price and execute the order upon receiving the payment
```

> - The `multiplier` returned on this response is not guaranteed by the `SERVICE` and is subject to change

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `multiplier` is not guaranteed by the `SERVICE` and is subject to change
```

- The `code` of a `currency` will be used as an identifier for the next request and must be unique

> - The `code` and other information must be according to [ISO-4217](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) for currencies that are included in it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `code` and `decimal` information must be according to [ISO-4217](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217)
```

> - The order of the `currencies` must be interpreted by the `WALLET` as the receiving user preference for a currency

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The order of the `currencies` may be interpreted by the `WALLET` as the receiving user preference for a currency
```

### Wallet-side second request

> Upon receiving the `currencies` field on the response, the `WALLET` shows the user it has the option of denominating the amount in one of the `currencies` or for the payment to be credit as the different currency for the receiver. If the BTC being used for the payment is was bought as part of the payment, the `WALLET` may inform the `SERVICE` about it's cost.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Upon receiving the `currencies` field on the response, the `WALLET` shows the user it has the option of denominating the amount in one of the `currencies` or for the payment to be credited as a different currency for the receiver. If the BTC being used for the payment was bought as part of the payment, the `WALLET` may inform the `SERVICE` about its cost.
```

The inputs that must be gathered from the user are:
- An optional denominating currency and amount (`CURRENCY_D` and `AMOUNT_D`)
- An optional source currency and amount (`CURRENCY_S` and `AMOUNT_S`)
- An optional target currency (`CURRENCY_T`)

The most general case has all the possible parameters present.

> It will generate an invoice with amount equivalent to `AMOUNT_D` `CURRENCY_D`, that will be converted into `CURRENCY_T` by the `SERVICE` upon payment, which will be done with BTC that costed the sender `AMOUNT_S` `CURRENCY_S`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It will generate an invoice with the amount equivalent to `AMOUNT_D` `CURRENCY_D`, which will be converted into `CURRENCY_T` by the `SERVICE` upon payment, which will be done with BTC that costs the sender `AMOUNT_S` `CURRENCY_S`.
```

`<callback><?|&>amount=<AMOUNT_D>.<CURRENCY_D>&source=<AMOUNT_S>.<CURRENCY_S>&target=<CURRENCY_T>`

Each combination of parameters is valid and generates a different use case.

> - Ommiting the `amount` denomination implies the invoice is for millisatoshis (base spec)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Omitting the `amount` denomination implies the invoice is for millisatoshis (base spec)
```

> - Ommiting the `source` prevents the receiver from knowing the cost of the BTC being sent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Omitting the `source` prevents the receiver from knowing the cost of the BTC being sent
```

> - Ommiting the `target` implies the receiver will get BTC from the payment, no matter the `source` or `amount` denomination

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Omitting the `target` implies the receiver will get BTC from the payment, no matter the `source` or `amount` denomination
```

Note that the amount provided in all requests is always an integer number interpreted as the smallest unit of the selected `currency`. The smallest unit needs to be according to the `decimals` parameter, so the `WALLET` has all the needed information to receive input and show output properly.

### Service-side second response

> Upon receiving a currency denominated request from `WALLET`, the `SERVICE` must return an invoice with an amount matching the converted rate for the amount in that currency. The rate used does not need to match the `multiplier` first informed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Upon receiving a currency-denominated request from `WALLET`, the `SERVICE` must return an invoice with an amount matching the converted rate for the amount in that currency. The rate used does not need to match the `multiplier` first informed.
```

> If the `WALLET` requested an actual conversion, the `SERVICE` must provide an additional field alongside the invoice informing the guaranteed `converted` amount that will be credit to the receiver upon payment. The `converted` amount, and therefore the conversion rate, must be guaranteed by the `SERVICE` for as long as the invoice is not expired. The `converted` amount must be denominated in the smallest unit of the currency, just like the `amount` parameter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the `WALLET` requested an actual conversion, the `SERVICE` must provide an additional field alongside the invoice informing the guaranteed `converted` amount that will be credited to the receiver upon payment. The `converted` amount, and therefore the conversion rate, must be guaranteed by the `SERVICE` for as long as the invoice has not expired. The `converted` amount must be denominated in the smallest unit of the currency, just like the `amount` parameter.
```

}
```

```diff
{
  "pr": "lnbc1230n1pjknkl...ju36m3lyytlwv42fee8gpt6vd2v",
  "routes": [],
+ "converted": 123
}
```

### Examples
These examples show all the possible uses of this extension by a supporting `WALLET` and `SERVICE`.

#### Payer queries the payee service
`GET <service>/.well-known/lnurlp/<identifier>`
```json
{
  "tag": "payRequest",
  "callback": "bipa.app/callback",
  "metadata": "...",
  "minSendable": 1000,
  "maxSendable": 1000000,
  "currencies": [
    {
      "code": "BRL",
      "name": "Reais",
      "symbol": "R$",
      "decimals": 2,
      "multiplier": 5405.405,
      "convertible": true
    },
    {
      "code": "USDT",
      "name": "Tether",
      "symbol": "₮",
      "decimals": 6,
      "multiplier": 26315.789
    }
  ]
}
```
###### Payer sends 538 sats
```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=538000
{ "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)" }
```
###### Payer sends 1 BRL worth of BTC
```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=100.BRL
{ "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)" }
```
###### Payer sends 538 sats to be converted into BRL
```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=538000&target=BRL
{ "converted": 100, "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)" }
```

> ###### Payer sends 538 sats that costed 0.2 USDT

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
###### Payer sends 538 sats that cost 0.2 USDT
```

```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=538000&source=200000.USDT

> { "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)" }

Reviewer: One thing I might be missing here - in what cases would the SERVICE care what the source cost+currency was? How is that information used? Is there some legal reason this is needed for remittences or something?

Author: The SERVICE might care in order to provide a better experience, in this case, more information about the operation. For example, if you are service A sending dollars to service B to be converted into euros.

The sending service (A) is gonna buy the dollars and the user will confirm the quote for selling into euros, so A will know the whole exchange, including the dollar-to-euro conversion rate.

The receiving service (B) of course knows about the sell, but it wouldn't know about the dollars without being informed by A. Having this information exchanged means both sides can say the actual dollar-to-euro exchange rate and show the information to the user.

Two random examples I can think of are, top of my head: you're actually sending money to yourself overseas or something like transferwise and you'd want to have information about the exchange on both sides. Second one would be you're paying someone an agreed upon amount in your local currency, like I need to pay you $5 for this comment. Trust both services implementations, your wallet would know that I paid $5 for the BTC I sent you, no matter how many sats you got on your side.

Does that explain the logic?

Reviewer: I see, so it's mostly for UX on the receiver side so that they can see the whole picture, but they don't actually need to use it for anything on their end. That makes sense! So in the "sender exchange" case we were talking about, it might look something like the case below `GET <callback>?amount=538000&source=200000.USDT&target=BRL` where the sender would specify amount in mSATs, maybe say a source cost, and specify a target currency for the receiver side. That makes sense!

Author: That's exactly what I had in mind. Exactly that!

```
###### Payer sends 1 BRL worth of BTC to be converted into USDT
```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=100.BRL&target=USDT
{ "converted": 200000, "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)" }
```

> ###### Payer sends 1 BRL worth of BTC that costed 0.2 USDT

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
###### Payer sends 1 BRL worth of BTC that cost 0.2 USDT
```

```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=100.BRL&source=200000.USDT
{ "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)" }
```

> ###### Payer sends 538 sats that costed 0.2 USDT to be converted into BRL

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
###### Payer sends 538 sats that cost 0.2 USDT to be converted into BRL
```

```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=538000&source=200000.USDT&target=BRL
{ "converted": 100, "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)" }
```

> ###### Payer sends 1 BRL worth of BTC that costed 0.2 USDT to converted into BRL

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
###### Payer sends 1 BRL worth of BTC that costs 0.2 USDT to be converted into BRL
```

```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=100.BRL&source=200000.USDT&target=BRL
{ "converted": 100, "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)" }
```
###### Payer sends 1 BRL worth of BTC to unsupported service
```json5
// GET <callback>?amount=100.BRL
{ "status": "ERROR", "reason": "..." }
```

### Related work

- Some of the ideas included in this PR were taken from the implementation and discussion on [this PR](https://github.com/lnurl/luds/pull/207). Most precisely, @ethanrose (author) and @callebtc (contributor).

> - Some early ideas for this including some other aspects of it were hashed out (but not pull-requested) in this [earlier draft](https://github.com/bipa-app/lnurl-rfc/pull/1) too. Thanks @luizParreira (author), @joosjager (contributor), @za-kk (contributor).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Some early ideas for this including some other aspects of it were hashed out (but not pull-requested) in this [earlier draft](https://github.com/bipa-app/lnurl-rfc/pull/1) too. Thanks, @luizParreira (author), @joosjager (contributor), @za-kk (contributor).
```

In another particular case, when the user is denominating the amount in millisatoshi, but wants it to be converted to `CURRENCY` on `SERVICE`.
```diff
- <callback><?|&>amount=<millisatoshi>
+ <callback><?|&>amount=<millisatoshi>&convert=<CURRENCY>
```

> Note that the amount provided in all requests is always in integer number denominated in the smallets possible unit of the selected currency. The smallest unit need to be um sync with the `displayDecimals` parameter, so the `WALLET` has all the needed information to receive input and show output properly.

Reviewer 3: Note that the amount provided in all requests is always *an* integer number denominated

Author: ab98b7d6ce1350dd4e2426eb110e7c6cf216c862

> Note that the amount provided in all requests is always in integer number denominated in the smallets possible unit of the selected currency. The smallest unit need to be um sync with the `displayDecimals` parameter, so the `WALLET` has all the needed information to receive input and show output properly.

Reviewer 3: smallest*

Reviewer 3: um => in

// GET bipa.app/callback?amount=538000&convert=BRL
{
  "pr": "(invoice of 538 sats)",

>   "converted": 100

Reviewer 3: should we add that converted is in the smallest currency unit as well?

Author: ab98b7d6ce1350dd4e2426eb110e7c6cf216c862
